If requested the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall unassign the flight plan assigned to a UAV that is awaiting execution.
If a UAV has pending flight plans then when it reaches the final waypoint of its current flight plan the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall execute the next assigned flight plan.
When a UAV's current flight is cancelled the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall in turn cancel all scheduled flight plans for that UAV.
The UI Middleware shall provide an interface for registering UI clients.
The UI Middleware shall only assign one control client at a time for each UAV.
If a command is issued by the Vaadin UI for an UAV the Vaadin UI shall request control of that UAV.
When the Real Time Flight UI is loaded a map shall be displayed.
The Real Time Flight UI shall display the location of active UAVs as icons on the map.
When a stationary or moving object is within the proximity of a UAV the Object Avoidance system shall issue evasive directives to the UAV.
If a UAV takes evasive actions the system will ensure that it will eventually reach its destination.
The Object Avoidance system only issues commands within the capabilities of the UAV.
When a UAV has an active onboard Obstacle Avoidance then the Obstacle Avoidance system shall not issue directives.
When a GCS requests activation of a newly detected UAV the GCS Middleware shall forward the request to Dronology.
The UAV Activation Manager shall only activate UAVs that are registered.
When the GCS loses the connection to an UAV the GCS shall attempt to reconnect.
The Vehicle Core shall assign a unique ID to each activated UAV.
The Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall only execute one flight plan at a time for each UAV.
The UAV Activation Manager shall ensure that only one instance of each registered drone is active at any time.
The Vehicle Core shall associate a UAVTYPE for each UAV defining its basic attributes.
When the return to home command is issued the Flight Manager shall return the UAV to its original launch location without issuing any additional waypoint or routing commands.
The Flight Route Manager shall define flight routes as an ordered sequence of waypoints in which the first waypoint represents the first target location and the final waypoint represents the final target location.
The Flight Route Manager shall ensure that all flight routes represent a VALID FLIGHT ROUTE.
The Flight Route Manager shall persist flight routes.
When a flight route requires a customized takeoff altitude that differs from the system's default takeoff altitude it shall be specified in the flight route.
When requested the Coordinate System shall transform coordinates to alternate formats.
When given two coordinates the Coordinate System shall compute the distance between them.
When given two coordinates the Coordinate System shall compute the direction from the first coordinate to the second coordinate.
When the hover in place command is issued the Flight Manager shall halt the UAV in place and maintain its current position.
If a flight route is assigned to a UAV which is currently hovering in place the Flight Manager shall assign the route and maintain the hover in place mode.
If a flight plan is active and the hover in place command is rescinded the Flight Manager shall notify the UAV to continue to the originally designated waypoint.
When a flight plan is activated for a UAV currently on the ground the Flight Scheduling and Execution shall notify the UAV to takeoff vertically until it reaches the prescribed altitude.
The Mission Planner shall manage predefined Flight Patterns.
When requested if a mission is currently active the Mission Planner shall cancel the active mission.
When requested the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall schedule a route for execution.
If a route contains a specific UAV ID the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall assign the route to the given UAV.
If a scheduled flight is not manually assigned to a UAV the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall assign the route automatically to an UAV.
If a UAV does not have any pending flight plans then when it reaches the final waypoint of its current flight plan the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall notify the UAV to hover in place.
If requested the Single UAV Flight Plan Scheduler shall abort the currently executing flight plan of an UAV.
A flight pattern shall document the longitude latitude and altitude of waypoints in a flight route as offsets from the starting position of the UAV.
When a group of UAVs are assigned flight patterns as part of a mission the system shall provide a warning if any paths overlap.
The Vehicle Core shall support UAVs connected via the GCS.
The Vehicle Core shall support virtual UAVs.
When a UAV is deactivated the UAV Activation Manager shall cancel all current and scheduled flight plans.
When the maximum numbers of allowed activated UAVs has been reached the UAV Activation Manager shall reject any further activation requests.
The UAV Registration Manager shall store UAV meta-data information such as the UAV's technical characteristics.
The Internal Simulator shall approximate the behavior of a UAV.
When given a takeoff command the Internal Simulator shall move the UAV to the takeoff altitude corresponding to its current longitude and latitude.
When given a goto command the Internal Simulator shall update the location of the UAV at increments of SIMULATION STEP SIZE meters moving it towards the target destination until the destination is reached.
When given a landing command the Internal Simulator shall move the UAV from to the ground altitude corresponding to its current longitude and latitude.
The Internal Simulator shall approximate the state of the battery.
The Activity Logger shall log all flight plan related events.
The Activity Logger shall log all commands sent to and messages received from a CGS.
The UI Middleware shall provide a list of all active UAVs
The UI Middleware shall provide a list of all existing routes.
The UI Middleware accepts commands from UIs and forwards to Dronology.
The UI Middleware shall enable the creation and modification of flight routes.
The UI Middleware shall enable an existing route to be assigned to an active UAV.
The UI Middleware shall accept and activate a mission plan upon request.
When the Vaadin UI is activated the Vaadin UI shall be configured according to stored configuration parameters.
When loading the map view it shall be positioned at the pre-defined location.
The Route Assignment UI shall provide means to select an existing routes and assign them to a UAV.
When a route is assigned or removed from a UAV the Route Assignment UI shall notify Dronology.
When requested by the user the Route Assignment UI shall display details about the selected UAV and its flight plans.
When a UAV is selected the Route Assignment UI shall display its active flight plans.
A user may reorder routes or remove flight plans assigned to a UAV as long as the flight has not started execution.
When a user shall cancels a pending flight plan the Route Assignment UI shall notify Dronology.
The Route Creation UI shall distinguish between starting ending and intermediate waypoint markers.
The Route Creation UI shall only accept valid altitude and speed values for waypoint.
Each route shall include a unique ID a textual description and a set of waypoints all of which are editable in the UI.
When requested the Route Creation UI shall send a newly created or modified route to dronology.
The Route Creation UI shall allow the user to create and modify a route.
The Route Creation UI shall allow a user to delete a route.
When the Route Creation UI is loaded a list of all existing routes shall be displayed.
The Real Time Flight UI shall display the name and status of all currently activated UAVs
The Real Time Flight UI shall display all currently active flight plans on the map.
The Real Time Flight UI shall allow users to apply flight operations to one or more selected UAVs.
The Real Time Flight UI shall allow users to perform emergency operations (e.g. hovering multiple UAVs sending multiple UAVs to home) to a group of UAVs.
The Real Time Flight UI shall allow users to follow one or multiple UAVs on the map.
The Real Time Flight UI shall notify users when an emergency occurs.
The Dronology Runtime Monitor shall provide functionality to retrieve monitoring messages and distribute them to clients.
When a new monitoring message is received the Dronology Runtime Monitor shall forward the message to all subscribed clients.
The Dronology Runtime Monitor shall be able to receive messages from any Dronology component.
The GCS Middleware shall handle multiple GCS.
The GCS Middleware shall follow a predefined set of steps to establish a connection between a GCS and Dronology.
The GCS Middleware shall handle state messages  monitoring messages and mode change messages received from an GCS.
The GCS Middleware shall forward commands sent from Dronology to a GCS.
When the connection to the GCS from the GCS Middleware is lost the GCS Middleware shall notify Dronology and deactivate all associated UAVs.
When the GCS receives a UAV command from the GCS Middleware the GCS shall forward the command to the respective UAV.
The GCS shall assign a message frequency for all UAVs.
The GCS shall report newly connected UAVs to the GCS Middleware.
